README.md, before:

# Melanoma Detection App

## Overview
This Melanoma Detection App is an interactive web application designed to assist in the detection and understanding of melanoma, a serious form of skin cancer. The app utilizes advanced deep learning models to analyze skin and dermoscopy images, providing educational resources and visualizations to enhance understanding of melanoma.

## Website
The application is deployed and accessible at: [Melanoma Detection App · Streamlit](https://melanoma-detection-ai.streamlit.app/)

## Features
- **Multiple Model Support**: Includes various deep learning models (CNN, VGG16, ResNet50, EfficientNetB4, InceptionResNetV2) for both skin and dermoscopy image analysis.
- **Interactive Image Upload**: Users can upload their own skin or dermoscopy images for analysis.
- **Model Performance Metrics**: Displays detailed performance metrics including accuracy, precision, recall, and AUC for each model.
- **Visualizations**: Offers interactive data visualizations to understand the distribution of melanoma cases, age, and gender in the dataset.
- **Educational Resources**: Provides curated links to academic articles, websites, and research papers on melanoma and related technologies.
- **FAQs Section**: Answers common questions about the app and melanoma detection.
- **Feedback System**: Includes a form for users to submit feedback or questions.

## Technology Stack
- **Frontend**: Streamlit
- **Backend**: Python
- **Deep Learning**: TensorFlow, Keras
- **Data Visualization**: Plotly, Seaborn, Matplotlib
- **Image Processing**: Pillow
- **Data Analysis**: Pandas, NumPy

## Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/DeborahAdedigba/Melanoma-Detection.git
   ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```bash
   cd Melanoma-Detection
   ```
3. Install the required dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
4. Run the Streamlit app:
   ```bash
   streamlit run Melanoma_Detection.py
   ```

## Usage
Navigate through the app using the sidebar menu:
1. **Introduction**: Learn about the app and melanoma.
2. **Model Performance**: Explore the performance metrics of different models.
3. **Visualizations**: View interactive charts and graphs of melanoma data.
4. **Melanoma Detection**: Upload images for analysis.
5. **Educational Resources**: Access curated learning materials.
6. **FAQs**: Find answers to common questions.
7. **Feedback and Contact**: Submit your feedback or questions.

## Data Sources
- PH2 Dataset for skin images
- ISIC 2016 Dataset for dermoscopy images

## Model Information
The app uses five different neural network architectures:
- **CNN**: Custom Convolutional Neural Network
- **VGG16**: Deep CNN known for image classification
- **ResNet50**: Deep residual network architecture
- **EfficientNetB4**: Balanced network for improved efficiency
- **InceptionResNetV2**: Combined Inception and residual connections

## Screenshots
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e854143c-c5d1-45d3-9aef-8b95d269d45a)


## Disclaimer
This app is for educational and informational purposes only. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.

## Contributing
Contributions to improve the app are welcome. Please follow these steps:
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License
GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE  
Version 3, 29 June 2007

## Contact
For any queries or support, please use the Feedback and Contact form within the app or reach out to 2adedd38@solent.ac.uk.

Commit message:

Update README.md to include downloadable summary option

README.md, after:

# Melanoma Detection App

## Overview
This Melanoma Detection App is an interactive web application designed to assist in the detection and understanding of melanoma, a serious form of skin cancer. The app utilizes advanced deep learning models to analyze skin and dermoscopy images, providing educational resources and visualizations to enhance understanding of melanoma.

## Website
The application is deployed and accessible at: [Melanoma Detection App · Streamlit](https://melanoma-detection-ai.streamlit.app/)

## Features
- **Multiple Model Support**: Includes various deep learning models (CNN, VGG16, ResNet50, EfficientNetB4, InceptionResNetV2) for both skin and dermoscopy image analysis.
- **Interactive Image Upload**: Users can upload their own skin or dermoscopy images for analysis.
- **Model Performance Metrics**: Displays detailed performance metrics including accuracy, precision, recall, and AUC for each model.
- **Downloadable Model Summaries**: Users can view and download detailed model architecture summaries as text files for further analysis.
- **Visualizations**: Offers interactive data visualizations to understand the distribution of melanoma cases, age, and gender in the dataset.
- **Educational Resources**: Provides curated links to academic articles, websites, and research papers on melanoma and related technologies.
- **FAQs Section**: Answers common questions about the app and melanoma detection.
- **Feedback System**: Includes a form for users to submit feedback or questions.

## Technology Stack
- **Frontend**: Streamlit
- **Backend**: Python
- **Deep Learning**: TensorFlow, Keras
- **Data Visualization**: Plotly, Seaborn, Matplotlib
- **Image Processing**: Pillow
- **Data Analysis**: Pandas, NumPy

## Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/DeborahAdedigba/Melanoma-Detection.git
   ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```bash
   cd Melanoma-Detection
   ```
3. Install the required dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
4. Run the Streamlit app:
   ```bash
   streamlit run Melanoma_Detection.py
   ```

## Usage
Navigate through the app using the sidebar menu:
1. **Introduction**: Learn about the app and melanoma.
2. **Model Performance**: Explore the performance metrics of different models.
3. **Visualizations**: View interactive charts and graphs of melanoma data.
4. **Melanoma Detection**: Upload images for analysis.
5. **Educational Resources**: Access curated learning materials.
6. **FAQs**: Find answers to common questions.
7. **Feedback and Contact**: Submit your feedback or questions.

## Data Sources
- PH2 Dataset for skin images
- ISIC 2016 Dataset for dermoscopy images

## Model Information
The app uses five different neural network architectures:
- **CNN**: Custom Convolutional Neural Network
- **VGG16**: Deep CNN known for image classification
- **ResNet50**: Deep residual network architecture
- **EfficientNetB4**: Balanced network for improved efficiency
- **InceptionResNetV2**: Combined Inception and residual connections

Each model's architecture can be examined in detail through the app interface, and summaries can be downloaded as text files for reference.

## Screenshots
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e854143c-c5d1-45d3-9aef-8b95d269d45a)


## Disclaimer
This app is for educational and informational purposes only. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.

## Contributing
Contributions to improve the app are welcome. Please follow these steps:
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License
GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE  
Version 3, 29 June 2007

## Contact
For any queries or support, please use the Feedback and Contact form within the app or reach out to 2adedd38@solent.ac.uk.
